Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to talk about the illogical or and illogical not operators.
All right, so we have covered the logical end operator.
Now it's time to cover the logical owner, operator, dialogical or operator has a simple of a symbol
of double pipe characters and the character on top of my keyboard, in my keyboard.
It's on top of the entire key or the return key.
All right.
And what what this logical operator does is we have to boolean expressions, OK, at least we should
have to boolean expressions.
And when one of the boolean expressions evaluates to true, this operator is going to return.
True.
Whatever logic that we have.
All right.
So let's go ahead and let's take a look at it.
I'm just going to go ahead.
I'm going to say example one.
This is the logical or operator and we're going to say if F two is greater than one and or this is or
this is the or operator and five is less than seven.
Right.
So we are going to take a look at this one.
I'm just going to go ahead, I'm going to change this to three, because I want one side of this boolean
expression to return false so we can see how this operator works.
OK, and we are going to print to the console.
We are going to log to the console success.
Let's save it.
And we can see success here.
And now let's go over the syntax so we have our if statement and deconditioned part of the statement
we have if two is greater than three, this is incorrect.
So this boolean expression returns false or five is less than seven.
This boolean expression returns true.
So one side of this operator is true, which is this side and the other side of the operator is false.
But still, because this is the logical or operator is it is going to return.
True.
It is going to run our code.
All right.
Let's go over one more example.
These are really, really simple example to ex maple wrong tree.
All right, so in here, what I'm gonna do is I'm going to create an if statement and the statement
we are going to say 10 is greater than eight or or eight is greater than five.
OK, five.
And we are going to print to the console our previous message, which is success.
And now you guys can see that it says eight.
A ten is greater than it.
This part is true.
Right.
And this part says eight is greater than five.
And this part is true as well.
And we can see that the code has run.
So for us to get a true return, a return of true from a logical or operator, at least one side of
that operator should evaluate to true and even both.
And if both sides of the operator they evaluate to true, we are still going to get that.
OK, so this is how the logical or operator works.
Now, let's go ahead and let's talk about the logical, not the logical and not operator.
All right, and the symbol for this one is, I'm sure I should put it right here, it's just an exclamation
mark.
Now, this exclamation mark works in the same way as we had for a Renana quality operators.
We had the non-equity quality operator and we had the strict nanny quality operator.
It works in the same way, OK, it returns true if the expression, if any expression is false.
So for this operator to run our code, the expression should be incorrect.
It should be false.
All right.
So let's go ahead and let's see.
Let's create a variable variable of temperature and you're going to set it to 22 degrees C or Fahrenheit.
OK, I'm just going to say C Celsius.
Now, F temperature is equal to 20.
F temperature is equal to 20 percent of log.
Really.
OK, just consider like really let's say it.
And then we can see we don't see anything in the console because temperature has a value of 22.
But here the condition says F temperature is equal to 20, then run this code.
Right.
Now, what if I put the logical nonoperating here now this expression is false, right, because temperature
is not going to be equal to 20.
All right.
When the temperature is not equal to 20, we want to run this.
When I save it, when I say that we should be able to see it, which we don't, because the this expression
is false by default.
And when we put another false in front of it, then it is double minus.
Double minus is going to result in a plus, which is not something that we want.
So let's put it to 20 and we should be able to see our code in here.
And the problem is, I think that this should be inside parenthesis parentheses, because this expression
should be applied, this this logical operators are not expression should be applied on this whole condition
when we say what we are going to see, really, because in here, it's such temperature is 20.
All right.
But in here we have temperature is actually 22.
So temperature is not equal to 20.
So how can we return this plus statement or positive statement?
How can we turn it into a negative statement?
We just add a negative in the front of it.
So it says when temperature is not equal to 20 percent, this one.
All right.
And we see it says really?
So this is how the logical not operator works.
It works when the statement is false, when the statement is false, then we are going to see that it
works.
Let's put it to 20 and let's take a look at it.
And now you can see the temperature is 20.
But in here, in here, we also say that the temperature is 20.
And this logical not operator says when the temperature is not 20, but the variable says that the temperature
is 20.
So this is sort of like a paradoxical idea, the temperature when the temperature is not equal to 20,
but in here it says 20.
So if you put it to any value other than to any, we should be able to see our concerns low.
So let's take a look at 54.
Let's put it to 110.
Let's put it to, I don't know, like 19.
So in any other condition, we are going to see except for 20, because in 20, this operator is not
going to return.
True.
It is going to return false.
OK, because this is a not operator.
Let's put it to 22 once more, so that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.